BashOperator guide update (#420)
astronomer/airflow-guides: guides/scripts-bash-operator.md

---
title: "Using the BashOperator"
description: "Using the BashOperator in Airflow to execute bash commands and scripts"
date: 2018-07-17T00:00:00.000Z
slug: "scripts-bash-operator"
heroImagePath: null
tags: ["DAGs", "Operators"]
---

> The [`BashOperator`](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/modules/bashoperator) is one of the most commonly used operators in Airflow. It is used to execute bash commands or a bash script from within your Airflow DAG.

Reviewer: Because we use it so often in the guide and the name isn't necessarily a coded value, we should remove the `Code` styling for all uses of the `BashOperator` unless we're describing it within the context of a larger line of code.

In this guide we will cover:

- When to use the `BashOperator`.
- How to use the `BashOperator`.
- Examples of how to use the `BashOperator` including executing bash commands and bash scripts
- How to run scripts in non-Python programming languages using the `BashOperator`.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-an-operator/).
- Basic bash commands. See the [Bash Reference Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html).

## How to use the BashOperator

The [BashOperator](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/modules/bashoperator) is part of core Airflow and can be used to execute a single bash command, a set of bash commands or a bash script ending in `.sh`.

The following parameters can be provided to the operator:

- `bash_command`: Provide a single bash command, a set of commands, or a bash script to be executed. This argument is required.

> - `env`: Define environment variables in a dictionary for the bash process created. By default, the dictionary provided will overwrite all existing environment variables; to change this behavior, see `append_env` below. If left empty, the `BashOperator` will inherit the environment variables from your Airflow environment.

Reviewer: Is my addition about the overwriting here ("including those not defined in the library.") correct?

> - `append_env`: Append environment variables provided in the `env` dictionary to any existing in your Airflow environment by setting to `True`. The default is `False`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `append_env`: If you set this to `True`, the environment variables you define in `env` are appended to existing environment variables instead of overwriting them. The default is `False`.
```

> - `output_encoding`: Define the output encoding of the bash command. The default is `'utf-8'`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `output_encoding`: Defines the output encoding of the bash command. The default is `'utf-8'`.
```
does utf-8 need extra quotes around it

> - `skip_exit_code`: Declare which bash exit code would leave the task defined by the `BashOperator` in a 'skipped' state. The default is 99.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `skip_exit_code`: Defines which bash exit code should be emitted when the task using the `BashOperator` enters a `skipped` state. The default is `99`.
```

> - `cwd`: Change the working directory where the bash command is run. The default is `None` and the bash command runs in a temporary directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `cwd`: Changes the working directory where the bash command is run. The default is `None` and the bash command runs in a temporary directory.
```

> `BashOperator` tasks have the following behavior:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The behavior of a BashOperator task is based on the status of the bash shell:
```

> **Note**: If you expect a non-zero exit from a sub-command you can add the prefix `set -e;` to your bash command to make sure that the exit is captured as a task failure.

Both the `bash_command` and the `env` parameters will render [Jinja templates](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/templating/). Please note that the input given through Jinja templates to `bash_command` are neither escaped nor sanitized. If you are concerned about potentially harmful user input you can use the setup shown in the [`BashOperator` documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html).

## When to use the BashOperator

The `BashOperator` is very flexible and widely used in Airflow DAGs. Some common use cases include:

- Running a single or multiple bash commands in your Airflow environment.
- Running a previously prepared bash script.
- Running scripts in a programming language other than Python.
- Running commands kicking off tools that do not have specific operator support yet. For example Soda Core.

## Example: Execute two bash commands using one BashOperator

The `BashOperator` can execute any number of bash commands separated by `&&`.

> In this example, we run two commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we run two bash commands in a single task:
```

- `echo Hello $MY_NAME!` prints the environment variable `MY_NAME` to the console.
- `echo $A_LARGE_NUMBER | rev  2>&1 | tee $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_secret_number.txt` takes the environment variable `A_LARGE_NUMBER`, pipes it to the `rev` command which reverses any input, and saves the result in a file called `my_secret_number.txt` located in the `/include` directory. The reversed number will also be printed to the terminal.

> Note that the second command uses an environment variable from the Airflow environment `AIRFLOW_HOME`. This is only possible if `append_env` has been set to `True`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the second command uses an environment variable from the Airflow environment `AIRFLOW_HOME`. This is only possible because `append_env` is set to `True`.
```

```Python
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime
import os

with DAG(
    dag_id="bash_two_commands_example_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022,8,1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    say_hello_and_create_a_sectet_number = BashOperator(
        task_id="say_hello_and_create_a_sectet_number",
        bash_command="echo Hello $MY_NAME! && echo $A_LARGE_NUMBER | rev  2>&1\
                     | tee $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_secret_number.txt",
        env={
            "MY_NAME": "<my name>",
            "A_LARGE_NUMBER": "231942"
            },
        append_env=True
    )
```

> It is also possible to use two separate BashOperators to run the two commands, for example if you want to assign different dependencies to the tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is also possible to use two separate BashOperators to run the two commands, which can be useful if you want to assign different dependencies to the tasks.
```

## Example: Execute a bash script

The `BashOperator` can also be provided with a bash script (ending in `.sh`) to be executed.

> For this example, we run a bash script which iterates over all files in the `/include` folder and prints their name to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example, we run a bash script which iterates over all files in the `/include` folder and prints their names to the console.
```

```bash  
#!/bin/bash

echo "The script is starting!"
echo "The current user is $(whoami)"
files = $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/*

for file in $files
do
    echo "The include folder contains $(basename $file)"
done

echo "The script has run. Have an amazing day!"
```

> Make sure that your bash script (`my_bash_script.sh` in this example) is available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the file into the `/include` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that your bash script (`my_bash_script.sh` in this example) is available to your Airflow environment. If you use the Astro CLI, you can make this file accessible to Airflow by placing it in the `/include` directory of your Astro project.
```

> It is important to make the bash script executable by running:

Reviewer: Can you be more specific about when you need to run this command in the context of running Airflow?

> It is important to make the bash script executable by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to make the bash script executable by running the following command before starting Airflow:
```

```bash
chmod +x my_bash_script.sh
```

> If you are an Astro CLI user, you can either run the above command on the bash script before building your project with `astro dev start`, or you can add the command to the Dockerfile itself as:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Astro CLI, you can either run this command before running `astro dev start`, or you can add the command to your project's Dockerfile with the following `RUN` command:
```

```Dockerfile
RUN chmod +x /usr/local/airflow/include/my_bash_script.sh
```

> > **Note**: If you are running CICD processes that might impact file permissions add the command in the Dockerfile to ensure that permissions are set correctly when the container image is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends running this command in your Dockerfile for production builds such as Astro Deployments or in production CI/CD pipelines.
```

> Then in the DAG code, we provide the script to the `bash_command` parameter of the `BashOperator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After making the script available to Airflow, you only have to provide the path to the script in the `bash_command` parameter. Be sure to add a space character at the end of the filepath, or else the task will fail with a Jinja exception!
```

> > **Note**: When running a bash script with the `BashOperator` it is crucial to add a space at the end of the command! Otherwise the task will fail with a Jinja exception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Is it the end of the command, or the end of the file path? It looks like it might be the file path based on the below example.

```Python
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime
import os

with DAG(
    dag_id="bash_script_example_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022,8,1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    execute_my_script = BashOperator(
        task_id="execute_my_script",
        # Note the space at the end of the command!
        bash_command="$AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_bash_script.sh "
        # since the env argument is not specified, this instance of the
        # BashOperator has access to the environment variables of the Airflow
        # instance like AIRFLOW_HOME
    )
```

## Example: Run a script in another programming language

> Using the `BashOperator` is the easiest way to run a script in a non-Python programming language in Airflow. It is   possible to run a script in any language that can be run with a bash command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `BashOperator` is the easiest way to run a script in a non-Python programming language in Airflow. You can run a script in any language that can be run with a bash command.
```

> In this example, we run a script written in JavaScript to query a public API providing the [current location of the international Space Station](http://open-notify.org/Open-Notify-API/ISS-Location-Now/). The query result will be pushed to XCom, and a second task extracts the latitude and longitude information in a script written in R and prints them to the console.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we run some JavaScript to query a public API providing the [current location of the international Space Station](http://open-notify.org/Open-Notify-API/ISS-Location-Now/). The query result is pushed to XCom so that a second task can extract the latitude and longitude information in a script written in R and print the data to the console.
```

> The following steps are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following setup is required:
```

> - Install the JavaScript and R language packages at the OS level
> - Write a JavaScript file
> - Write a R script file
> - Make the scripts available to the Airflow environment
> - Execute the files from within a DAG using the `BashOperator`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Install the JavaScript and R language packages at the OS level.
- Write a JavaScript file.
- Write a R script file.
- Make the scripts available to the Airflow environment.
- Execute the files from within a DAG using the `BashOperator`.
```

> The language packages can be installed at the OS level by providing them to `packages.txt`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use the Astro CLI, the programming language packages can be installed at the OS level by specifying them to the `packages.txt` file of your Astro project. 
```

```text
r-base
nodejs
```

> The JavaScript file below contains the code necessary to send a GET request to the `/iss-now` path at `api.open-notify.org` and returns the results at `stdout`, which will both be printed to the console and pushed to XCom by the `BashOperator`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JavaScript file below contains code for sending GET request to the `/iss-now` path at `api.open-notify.org` and returning the results to `stdout`, which will both be printed to the console and pushed to XCom by the BashOperator.
```

```JavaScript
// specify that an http API is queried
const http = require('http');

// define the API to query
const options = {
  hostname: 'api.open-notify.org',
  port: 80,
  path: '/iss-now',
  method: 'GET',
};

const req = http.request(options, res => {
  // log the status code of the API response
  console.log(`statusCode: ${res.statusCode}`);

  // write the result of the GET request to stdout
  res.on('data', d => {
    process.stdout.write(d);
  });
});

// in case of an error print the error statement to the console
req.on('error', error => {
  console.error(error);
});

req.end();
```

> The second task runs a script written in R that uses a Regex to filter the longitude and latitude information from the API response and print them in a sentence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second task runs a script written in R that uses a regex to filter the longitude and latitude information from the API response and print it in a sentence.
```

```R
# print outputs to the console
options(echo = TRUE)

# read an argument provided to the R script from the command line
myargs <- commandArgs(trailingOnly = TRUE)

# split a string using : as a separator
set <- strsplit(myargs, ":")

# use Regex to extract the lat/long information and convert them to numeric
longitude <- as.numeric(gsub(".*?([0-9]+.[0-9]+).*", "\\1", set[3]))
latitude <- as.numeric(gsub(".*?([0-9]+.[0-9]+).*", "\\1", set[5]))

# print lat/long information in a sentence.
sprintf("The current ISS location: lat: %s / long: %s.", latitude, longitude)
```

> Make sure that both scripts (`my_R_script.R` and `my_java_script.js` in this example) are available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the files into the `/include` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run these scripts using the BashOperator, ensure that they are accessible to your Airflow environment.If you use the Astro CLI, you can place these files in the `/include` directory of your Astro project.
```

from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime

with DAG(
    dag_id="print_ISS_info_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022,8,1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    # Use the node command to execute the JavaScript file from the command line
    get_ISS_coordinates = BashOperator(
        task_id="get_ISS_coordinates",
        bash_command="node $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_java_script.js"
    )

    # Use the Rscript command to execute the R file which is being provided
    # with the result from task one via an environment variable via XComs
    print_ISS_coordinates = BashOperator(
        task_id="print_ISS_coordinates",
        bash_command="Rscript $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_R_script.R $ISS_COORDINATES",
        env={
            "ISS_COORDINATES": "{{ task_instance.xcom_pull(\
                               task_ids='get_ISS_coordinates', \
                               key='return_value') }}"
            },
        # set append_env to True to be able to use env variables
        # like AIRFLOW_HOME from the Airflow environment
        append_env=True
    )

    get_ISS_coordinates >> print_ISS_coordinates
```

> The logs from the second task will show the statement with the current ISS location:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The logs from the second task will show a statement with the current ISS location:
```

heroImagePath: null
tags: ["DAGs", "Operators"]
---

> The [`BashOperator`](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/modules/bashoperator) executes bash commands or a bash script from within your Airflow DAG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The [`BashOperator`](https://registry.astronomer.io/providers/apache-airflow/modules/bashoperator) is one of the most commonly used operators in Airflow. It is used to execute bash commands or a bash script from within your Airflow DAG.
```

In this guide we will cover:

- When to use the `BashOperator`.
- How to use the `BashOperator`.

> - Using the `BashOperator` to execute bash commands.
> - Executing a bash script with the `BashOperator`.
> - Running a both a JavaScript file and a R script from a DAG using the `BashOperator`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Examples of how to use the `BashOperator` including executing bash commands and bash scripts
- How to run scripts in non-Python programming languages using the `BashOperator`.
```

As written before, I had a tough time telling the difference between the bullet points until I actually read the sections (maybe I just didn't read closely enough to see the difference between 'script' and 'commands'). I think it's a bit more concise this way, but feel free to rework if this doesn't make sense.

## Assumed knowledge

To get the most out of this guide, you should have knowledge of:

- Airflow operators. See [Operators 101](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/what-is-an-operator/).
- Basic bash commands. See the [Bash Reference Manual](https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/bash.html).

## How to use the BashOperator

> The BashOperator is part of core Airflow and can be used to execute a single bash command, a set of bash commands or a bash script ending in `.sh`.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it would hurt to link to the registry again in this section.

> - `bash_command`: Provide a single bash command, a set of commands or a bash script to be executed. This argument is required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following parameters can be provided to the operator:

- `bash_command`: Provide a single bash command, a set of commands, or a bash script to be executed. This argument is required.
```

> - `env`: Define environment variables in a dictionary for the bash process created. If left empty the `BashOperator` will inherit the environment variables from your Airflow environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `env`: Define environment variables in a dictionary for the bash process created. By default, the dictionary provided will overwrite all existing environment variables; to change this behavior, see `append_env` below. If left empty, the `BashOperator` will inherit the environment variables from your Airflow environment.
```

> - `append_env`: By default providing a dictionary to the `env` parameter will override all existing environment variables. If you instead want to append new environment variables to the environment variables existing in your airflow environment you need to set `append_env` to `True`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `append_env`: Append environment variables provided in the `env` dictionary to any existing in your Airflow environment by setting to `True`. The default is `False`.
```

- `output_encoding`: Define the output encoding of the bash command. The default is `'utf-8'`.

> - `skip_exit_code`: Declare which bash exit code would leave the task defined by the `BashOperator` in 'skipped' state. The default is 99.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `skip_exit_code`: Declare which bash exit code would leave the task defined by the `BashOperator` in a 'skipped' state. The default is 99.
```

> - `cwd`: Change the working directory where the bash command is run. By default this parameter is set to `None` and the bash command runs in a temporary directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `cwd`: Change the working directory where the bash command is run. The default is `None` and the bash command runs in a temporary directory.
```

> The task defined by the `BashOperator` will be:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`BashOperator` tasks have the following behavior:
```

> - marked as 'success' if the whole shell exits with an exit code of 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tasks succeed if the whole shell exits with an exit code of 0.
```

> - skipped if the exit code is 99 (unless otherwise specified in `skip_exit_code`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tasks are skipped if the exit code is 99 (unless otherwise specified in `skip_exit_code`).
```

> - fail in case of all other exit codes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Tasks fail in case of all other exit codes.
```

> **Note**: If you expect a non-zero exit from a sub-command you can add the prefix `set -e;` to your bash command to make sure that the exit is captured as a task failure.

Both the `bash_command` and the `env` parameters will render [Jinja templates](https://www.astronomer.io/guides/templating/). Please note that the input given through Jinja templates to `bash_command` are neither escaped nor sanitized. If you are concerned about potentially harmful user input you can use the setup shown in the [`BashOperator` documentation](https://airflow.apache.org/docs/apache-airflow/stable/howto/operator/bash.html).

> ## When to use the BashOperator

Reviewer 2: Agree this section is pretty light, I could go either way on it. In some ways it might be nice to keep it just for layout consistency, and maybe it would be helpful for folks super new to Airflow. Open to being overruled though.

> You can use the `BashOperator` to execute:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `BashOperator` is very flexible and widely used in Airflow DAGs. Some common use cases include:
```

> - a single or multiple bash commands in your Airflow environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running a single or multiple bash commands in your Airflow environment.
```

> - a previously prepared bash script.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running a previously prepared bash script.
```

> - scripts in many programming languages other than Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Running scripts in a programming language other than Python.
```

## Example: Execute two bash commands using one BashOperator

The `BashOperator` can execute any number of bash commands separated by `&&`.

> In this example two commands are run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we run two commands:
```

- `echo Hello $MY_NAME!` prints the environment variable `MY_NAME` to the console.

> - `echo $A_LARGE_NUMBER | rev  2>&1 | tee $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_secret_number.txt` takes the environment variable `A_LARGE_NUMBER`, pipes it to the `rev` command which reverses any input and saves the result in a file called `my_secret_number.txt` located in the `/include` directory. The reversed number will also be printed to the terminal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `echo $A_LARGE_NUMBER | rev  2>&1 | tee $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_secret_number.txt` takes the environment variable `A_LARGE_NUMBER`, pipes it to the `rev` command which reverses any input, and saves the result in a file called `my_secret_number.txt` located in the `/include` directory. The reversed number will also be printed to the terminal.
```

> Note that the second command uses an environment variable from the Airflow environment `AIRFLOW_HOME`. This is only possible if `append_env` has been set to `True`. Of course it would also be possible to use two separate `BashOperator`s to run the two commands, for example if you want to assign different dependencies to the tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Note that the second command uses an environment variable from the Airflow environment `AIRFLOW_HOME`. This is only possible if `append_env` has been set to `True`. 
```

```Python
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime
import os

with DAG(
    dag_id="bash_two_commands_example_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022,8,1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    say_hello_and_create_a_sectet_number = BashOperator(
        task_id="say_hello_and_create_a_sectet_number",
        bash_command="echo Hello $MY_NAME! && echo $A_LARGE_NUMBER | rev  2>&1\
                     | tee $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_secret_number.txt",
        env={
            "MY_NAME": "<my name>",
            "A_LARGE_NUMBER": "231942"
            },
        append_env=True
    )
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is also possible to use two separate BashOperators to run the two commands, for example if you want to assign different dependencies to the tasks.
```

## Example: Execute a bash script

The `BashOperator` can also be provided with a bash script (ending in `.sh`) to be executed.

> For this example a bash script is created which iterates over all files in the `/include` folder and prints their name to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For this example, we run a bash script which iterates over all files in the `/include` folder and prints their name to the console.
```

```bash  
#!/bin/bash

echo "The script is starting!"
echo "The current user is $(whoami)"
files = $AIRFLOW_HOME/include/*

for file in $files
do
    echo "The include folder contains $(basename $file)"
done

echo "The script has run. Have an amazing day!"
```

> Save the file above as `my_bash_script.sh` and make it available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the file into the `/include` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that your bash script (`my_bash_script.sh` in this example) is available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the file into the `/include` directory.
```

It is important to make the bash script executable by running:

```bash
chmod +x my_bash_script.sh
```

> If you are an Astro CLI user you can either run the above command on the bash script before building the container from the Docker image or add the command to the Dockerfile itself as:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an Astro CLI user, you can either run the above command on the bash script before building your project with `astro dev start`, or you can add the command to the Dockerfile itself as:
```

> If you are an Astro CLI user you can either run the above command on the bash script before building the container from the Docker image or add the command to the Dockerfile itself as:

Reviewer 2: Any idea whether we would recommend one of these methods in particular? I would assume it's safer to add it to the Dockerfile so that if you deployed the project it would still be executable? Unless running the command on the file carries over when it's deployed? In any case, if we should recommend one let's note that. If they're functionally the same then it's good as is.

```Dockerfile
RUN chmod +x /usr/local/airflow/include/my_bash_script.sh
```

> In the DAG code provide the script to the `bash_command` parameter of the `BashOperator`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then in the DAG code, we provide the script to the `bash_command` parameter of the `BashOperator`.
```

> **Note**: When running a bash script with the `BashOperator` it is crucial to add a space at the end of the command! Otherwise the task will fail with a Jinja exception.

```Python
from airflow import DAG
from airflow.operators.bash import BashOperator
from datetime import datetime
import os

with DAG(
    dag_id="bash_script_example_dag",
    start_date=datetime(2022,8,1),
    schedule_interval=None,
    catchup=False
) as dag:

    execute_my_script = BashOperator(
        task_id="execute_my_script",
        # Note the space at the end of the command!
        bash_command="$AIRFLOW_HOME/include/my_bash_script.sh "
        # since the env argument is not specified, this instance of the
        # BashOperator has access to the environment variables of the Airflow
        # instance like AIRFLOW_HOME
    )
```

> ## Example: Run a JavaScript file and a R script

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example: Run a script in another programming language
```

Just making this more general since people search for/ask this question a lot

> The `BashOperator` offers the possibility to run a script in any language provided it is possible to run it with a bash command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the `BashOperator` is the easiest way to run a script in a non-Python programming language in Airflow. It is   possible to run a script in any language that can be run with a bash command.
```

> In this example we will run a script written in JavaScript to query a public API [providing the current location of the international Space Station](http://open-notify.org/Open-Notify-API/ISS-Location-Now/). The query result will be pushed to XComs and in a second step we can extract the latitude and longitude information in a script written in R and print them to the console.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, we run a script written in JavaScript to query a public API providing the [current location of the international Space Station](http://open-notify.org/Open-Notify-API/ISS-Location-Now/). The query result will be pushed to XCom, and a second task extracts the latitude and longitude information in a script written in R and print them to the console.
```

The following steps are required:

- Install the JavaScript and R language packages at the OS level
- Write a JavaScript file
- Write a R script file
- Make the scripts available to the Airflow environment
- Execute the files from within a DAG using the `BashOperator`

> The languages packages can be installed at the OS level by providing them to `packages.txt`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The language packages can be installed at the OS level by providing them to `packages.txt`:
```

```text
r-base
nodejs
```

The JavaScript file below contains the code necessary to send a GET request to the `/iss-now` path at `api.open-notify.org` and returns the results at `stdout`, which will both be printed to the console and pushed to XCom by the `BashOperator`.

```JavaScript
// specify that an http API is queried
const http = require('http');

// define the API to query
const options = {
  hostname: 'api.open-notify.org',
  port: 80,
  path: '/iss-now',
  method: 'GET',
};

const req = http.request(options, res => {
  // log the status code of the API response
  console.log(`statusCode: ${res.statusCode}`);

  // write the result of the GET request to stdout
  res.on('data', d => {
    process.stdout.write(d);
  });
});

// in case of an error print the error statement to the console
req.on('error', error => {
  console.error(error);
});

req.end();
```

> Save this JavaScript file as `my_java_script.js` and make it available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the file into the `/include` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> The second task will be using a script written in R that uses a Regex to filter the longitude and latitude information from the API response and print them in a sentence.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second task runs a script written in R that uses a Regex to filter the longitude and latitude information from the API response and print them in a sentence.
```

```R
# print outputs to the console
options(echo = TRUE)

# read an argument provided to the R script from the command line
myargs <- commandArgs(trailingOnly = TRUE)

# split a string using : as a separator
set <- strsplit(myargs, ":")

# use Regex to extract the lat/long information and convert them to numeric
longitude <- as.numeric(gsub(".*?([0-9]+.[0-9]+).*", "\\1", set[3]))
latitude <- as.numeric(gsub(".*?([0-9]+.[0-9]+).*", "\\1", set[5]))

# print lat/long information in a sentence.
sprintf("The current ISS location: lat: %s / long: %s.", latitude, longitude)
```

> Save this R file as `my_R_script.R` and make it available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the file into the `/include` directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure that both scripts (`my_R_script.R` and `my_java_script.js` in this example) are available to your Airflow environment. Astro CLI users can place the files into the `/include` directory.
```
